Below is a comparison of manual extraction and stanza extraction for the summary and keywords of the paper: "Online shopping bots for electronic commerce: The comparison of functionality and performance"
by Khaled W. Sadeddin, Alexander Serenko, and James Hayes.

------------------------------------------Manual------------------------------------------

-Key Words Extracted Manually:

Electronic commerce; intelligent agents; buisness; shopping bots; performance; internet; price; performance;

-Summary Extracted Manually:

"Shopping bots" are automated tools that assist consumers with online shoping. The bots allow for easy searches for prices and product characteristics from 
online retailers. These bots were often referred to as intelligent agents, software agents or intelligent assistants. In this paper, shopping bots are
treated as regular software-based applications. 
Shopping bots are not limited to typing in keywords and waiting for the results; consumers are expected to decide how the information generated 
by the bots will add up to the entire purchase decision-making process. 
Researchers, as early as 1995, had envisioned shopping bots as a solution for finding products under the best terms from online vendors when price was typically 
the most important feature. Since then, many bots have been enhanced or created: FireFly, Ringo, ShopBot, Tete@Tete, etc. 

------------------------------------------Stanza------------------------------------------
-Key Words Extracted by Stanza:

bot; price; agent; approach; vendor; user; product; feature; 

-Summary Extracted by Stanza:

Hence, the usage of a shopping bot is not limited to simply typing in a few keywords and waiting for the results.
Peterson, Balasbramanian, & Bronnenberg emphasize that for some categories of goods, consumers are likely to search both the Internet and conventional retailing channels.
The theoretical framework mentioned above was the driver for the early stages of shopping bots design and implementation and continues to fuel the efforts of improving the performance and functionality of shopping bots.
This became one of the earliest commercialized bot technologies when it evolved into FireFly.
Excite acquired and commercialized it under the name Jango but soon replaced it with a biased vendor-driven agent.

