Shopping bots are “automated tools that allow customers to easily search for prices and product characteristics from online retailers”. 
They are available on the Internet and act as electronic commerce search engines.
Bots accept user queries, visit eshops or websites of online merchants that may have a specific product, retrieve search results, and present them in a consolidated and compact format for visual comparison. 
There are various shopping bot services. 
In general, they can be divided into two types: server-based and client-based solutions. 
A server-based shopping bot performs price comparison on a Web server. 
Some examples include Bestbookbuys.com, Pricewatch.com, and mySimon.com. 
For a client-based bot, a special software application needs to be installed on the client-side. 
This system can be configured to check specific item prices from known vendors or search engines on a regular basis. 
Some examples include Copernic Shopper1 and Best Price2.
Technically, there are three ways to provide shopping bot services: a centralized database, broker agents and mobile agents. 
In the centralized database approach, each shopping bot has its own product information database. 
Sellers submit their offerings and update the database regularly, either manually or automatically. 
Essentially, the bot provides advertising services for the sellers. 
In the broker agent approach, shopping bots are used to extract product information from different sellers’ web sites.
Mobile agents can be utilized to visit each seller’s website to compare the price of the product of interest. 
Besides searching, a mobile agent can in fact be employed to complete a purchase which is the last step in the buying process.
A theoretical framework that leads to the development of shopping bots can be found in the economics of information theory, where Stigler argued that consumers who value time will stop searching when the marginal benefits of search no longer outweigh the marginal search costs. 
Hence, the usage of a shopping bot is not limited to simply typing in a few keywords and waiting for the results. 
Consumers need to decide how the information generated by a bot adds to the entire purchase decision-making process. 
To be effective, time spent searching with shopping bots needs to be minimized. 
This is particularly important since the use of a shopping bot is only one stage in the product acquisition process. 
Peterson, Balasbramanian, & Bronnenberg emphasize that for some categories of goods, consumers are likely to search both the Internet and conventional retailing channels. 
The theoretical framework mentioned above was the driver for the early stages of shopping bots design and implementation and continues to fuel the efforts of improving the performance and functionality of shopping bots. 
In the past, shopping bots were often referred to as agents, intelligent agents, software agents or intelligent assistants. 
It is noted that a discussion of whether shopping bots actually belong to the field of intelligent agents is out of the scope of this project. 
As such, this study concentrates on the performance aspects of this technology rather than on its theoretical or philosophical issues. 
As early as 1995, researchers envisioned shopping bots as a solution for finding products under the best terms from online vendors when price was typically the most important feature. 
A shopping agent queries multiple sites on behalf of a shopper to gather pricing and other information on products and services. 
Client-based shopping bots that appeared in the beginning of 1997 achieved that by allowing consumers to comparisonshop online without actually visiting merchants’ sites to locate best prices. 
The first shopping agent (BargainFinder) was developed by the consulting firm Andersen Consulting in 1995. 
It let users compare prices of music CDs from Internet stores. 
However, some retailers blocked access because they did not want to compete purely on price, and BargainFinder ceased operations. PersonaLogic, another comparison-shopping bot, let users create personal profiles to describe their preferences. 
This approach allowed the bot to identify products with features that users considered most important. 
However, vendors had to provide interfaces that explicitly disclosed product features so that PersonaLogic could match them with user profiles. 
AOL (America Online) acquired PersonaLogic in 1998, and the technology disappeared soon after that. Ringo was a bot that recommended entertainment products, such as CDs and movies, on the basis of collaborative filtering by using opinions of like-minded users. 
Collaborative filtering implies making automatic predictions (filtering) about the interests of a user by collecting preference information from many users (collaborating). 
An underlying assumption of collaborative filtering approach is that those who agreed in the past tend to agree again in the future. 
For example, a collaborative filtering or recommendation system for music preferences could make predictions about which music a user should like given a partial list of that user's tried before (likes or dislikes). 
Such predictions are specific to the person, but use information gleaned from many users. 
This differs from a more simple approach of giving an average (non-specific) score for each item of interest, for example based on its number of votes. 
This became one of the earliest commercialized bot technologies when it evolved into FireFly. 
Microsoft acquired FireFly Network Inc. in 1998, and the FireFly bot ceased operation shortly thereafter. 
However, collaborative filtering has become a common technique nowadays; for example large commercial vendors such as Amazon use it, although in simplified ways. 
ShopBot, another price comparison engine, could submit queries to e-commerce sites and interpret the resulting hits to identify lowest-price items. 
ShopBot automated the building of “wrappers” to parse semi-structured HTML documents and extract features, such as product descriptions and prices. 
The process would entail wrapping treatments learners (programs used to find rules that change the expected class distribution compared to some baseline) in a preprocessor that would search to make subsets from the current set of attributes. 
The attribute subset would continue to grow until the accuracy of the model was no longer more accurate. 
Parsing transforms input text into a data structure, usually a tree, which is suitable for later processing and which captures the implied hierarchy of the input. 
The overall method when applied to data sets from evendors’ websites would yield an HTML documents with the specified attribute set extracted from such website. 
Despite the usage of wrappers, the ShopBot technology’s fate was similar to those of PersonaLogic and FireFly. 
Excite acquired and commercialized it under the name Jango but soon replaced it with a biased vendor-driven agent. 
Tete@Tete was a bot that integrated product brokering, merchant brokering, and negotiation. 
A start-up called Frictionless Commerce applied the technology to business-to-business rather than to business-to-customer markets. 
Most of the comparison-shopping agents available to consumers such as MySimon, DealTime and RoboShopper, present results only from partner companies who pay service subscription fees. 
Most current business models are based on vendor rather than buyer revenue, because users are reluctant to pay fees for these services. 
However, a vendor-based revenue model still produces hidden costs such as higher prices, limited choices, and poor service. In this context, the established vendors’ reluctance to shopping bots is certainly understandable.